# Working with Data
## String Data Handling
`CHAR`: If target size is smaller than type's size, it will be padded with empty space.
`VARCHAR`: Variable length character type.
`TEXT`(MySQL, SQL Server) or `CLOB`(Oracle DB): Saving large variable string.
```sql
CREATE TABLE string_tbl (
    char_fld CHAR(30),
    vchar_fld VARCHAR(30),
    text_fld TEXT
);
```
* This table will be used in this lecture.
### Create String Field
```sql
INSERT INTO string_tbl (char_fld, vchar_fld, text_fld) 
VALUES ('This is char data', 
  'This is varchar data', 
  'This is text data');
```
* You should use escape character to write `'` char in string line.
  
```sql
SELECT quote(text_fld)
FROM string_tbl;
```
* If you want to get output with `\'` in raw, you can use `quote()` build-in function.
```sql
SELECT CONCAT('danke sch', CHAR(148), 'n');
```
* Adding string with `CONCAT` function is allowed.
* In Oracle DB, `CONCAT` function is same with `||`.

### Read String Field
* `LENGTH()` function with `unfilled-char` field will return length of unfilled state because MySQL removes empty spaces when query reads fields.

### Substring Position in String
```sql
SELECT POSITION('characters' IN vchar_fld)
FROM string_tbl;
```
* You can use `POSITION()` build-in function when you want to find substring index in string.
> You need to remember that start-index in DB is 1, not 0.

```sql
SELECT LOCATE('is', vchar_fld, 5) 
FROM string_tbl;
```
* You can use `LOCATE()` function when you need to set search-start position.
* Everything is same with `POSITION()` except `LOCATE()` function can set start index.

### Compare Two Strings
* `strcmp` function only works in MySQL. Works same with C++'s.
* You need to remember it doesn't matter with upper-lower case.

### Concat Function
```sql
UPDATE string_tbl   
SET text_fld = CONCAT(text_fld, ', but now it is longer');
```
* You can use `CONCAT()` function to add new string to original field.

```sql
SELECT concat(first_name, ' ', last_name,  
  ' has been a customer since ', date(create_date)) cust_narrative  
FROM customer;
```
* Making new string with original fields also can be done with `CONCAT()` function.

### Extra
`REPLACE(A,B,C)`: Replace B to C in A.
`INSERT(A,B,C,D)`: Insert D at B to C in string A.
`SUBSTRING(A,B,C)`: Extract string at B~C position in A.

## Number Data Handling
* If target number is largerer than specified size of column, it can be rounded by server.
* There are many number-related functions.

## Time Data Handling